CodeStore
---------

A peer-2-peer object store based on self-repairing codes (SRC).

It works with a central master server that takes an object
and distributes it across a set of peers by splitting the
object into multiple parts using the SRC.

In its current form, peers are local directories and the basis
vectors for the SRC are to be fed as a configuration parameter.
It has been tested against a (5,2) PSRC code for now. Hopefully,
the same code works with other codes as well. :)

Python 2.7 is required to run the application

Running the code
----------------

$: ./menu.py 

Commands
---------
Once inside the prompt there are several commands to execute
    
    (Cmd) init Filename
    Splits the file into parts by applying the basis vectors and the xor operations 
    where needed. It also starts a monitor service which takes care of regeneration.
    
    (Cmd) regenerate Filename FailedNode node1 node2 [node3]
    Regenerate using 2 or 3 nodes (if possible). To regenerate using 2 nodes, we 
    use the basis vectors to solve a system of linear equations. Thus, we determine 
    which parts to pull from the nodes, and how to combine them to regenerate the 
    missing objects. When using 3 nodes, by looking at the basis vectors of the 
    failed node, we can determine which bit is not set. If such a situation exists, 
    we can regenerate by using only 3 parts from 3 different nodes in the list, 
    given these vectors do not have the same missing bit set in them. Only when it 
    is not possible to find such a set of vectors, we fall back and repair the node 
    by using 4 parts from 2 nodes.
    
    (Cmd) reconstruct Filename node1 node2
    We reconstruct the object by fetching 4 parts from 2 nodes and finding the inverse 
    of the matrix formed by the basis vectors of the nodes. The output file generated 
    is 'reconstructed-output.mp3'
    
    (Cmd) test Filename
    Tests all possible combinations of the regenerate function using 3 nodes to reconstruct.
    For the basis vectors specified in conf.py, in 58% of the cases it is possible to 
    reconstruct using 3 nodes by using the our method of detecting the unused bit in the 
    failed node.

    (Cmd) stats
    Print stats from the monitoring service that detects the failure of nodes

    (Cmd) clean Filename
    Dletes all parts corresponding to that file from the directories and also deletes 
    'reconstructed-output.mp3'

    (Cmd) exit
    Exit the shell
    

TODO
----
- Padding of file chunks (use meta_store.py)
- In cases where our unused-bit-technique doesn't apply, try explorative search instead
  of using 4 parts to reconstruct the object.


Credits
-------

Mariano Vallés
Lalith Suresh
